---
title: "5W2H"
author: "Arthur Pieri"
tags: 
- agile
- tools
- project-management
---
#agile #project-management 
# Definition
5W2H is a common tool used in Business Management in order the effectively communicate tasks and objectives. And it's a must-have tool when working in Project Management.

Simply put it simply it's the 7 questions that need to be answered to give a complete understanding of the tasks and achieve better results. Those are the following questions:

### What? (What must be done)
The first thing that needs to be clear to everyone, is a definition of what must be done, in the most precise manner possible.

Example: "Hold the Daily meeting"

### Why? (Why are we doing this)
This is a deceptively simple question that can be hard to answer, sometimes because we don't have the full picture. Sometimes, some self-called Managers think that telling why could diminish their authority. However, we live in a different world nowadays, where information is abundant and people search for meaning and purpose in everything they do.

Example: "We do the daily meeting so that everyone on the team is aware of the tasks being done and more able to provide help"

### Where (where will it be done?)
This question can be searching for a physical place, a tool, somewhere where the work must be done.

Example: We will be holding the daily meeting through Google Meet (or in meeting room number 3 on the second floor)

### When (In what day and/or hour this must be done?)
This is a simple and obvious question and therefore is often forgotten, you just need to provide a time, an Hour, a day, a week it all depends on the task at hand.

Example: Hold the daily meeting every day of the week at 9 am.

### Who (who will do it?)

Another very important question that causes many problems, as we often do not clearly define who should perform each task, and it may end up not being done.

Example: The Nhanderu Project team should hold a daily meeting.

### How (how will it be done?)

Usually, here we can express some limitations of the tasks or even a general definition of how to do it, often this question should be answered by the person or team responsible for performing the task.

Example: The daily meeting should last up to 15 minutes, and answer the 3 basic questions (What I did, what I will do, and if I have any impediments).

### How much (how much will it cost?)

It is a question that cannot always be answered, so some authors will also talk about the 5W1H, where "How Much" is not applied. Generally, it is important to know the value of the tasks and in our example we can use this question to show the cost that stopping an entire team can have for the company, allowing meetings to be less frequent and more objective.

Example: Every 15 minutes of the Nhanderu Project Team costs roughly 47 Dollars.

### The final example (using every question)

> The task:
**Daily meeting**
Must be held by the Nhanderu project team, every day of the week at 9 am on Google Meet
It must last at most 15 minutes and everyone on the team must answer the 3 basic questions:
> 1. What I did since our last meeting
> 2. What I will do until our next meeting
> 3. Do I have any impediments, blocks, or delays?
> 
The meeting has been successful once the team understands what tasks are being done if anyone needs help, and what can be done to remove obstacles so we can achieve our goal.

### Conclusion

All questions are self-explanatory and may often seem like "nonsense", but once you internalize the questions and always try to answer them when performing a task, you will realize that fewer mistakes are made, the overall understanding is better, and results are achieved more often.